# Meeting Topic

## Meeting Minutes

**Date:** Oct 09, 2020 15:00 UTC

### Agenda

1. Status of the project
2. How to move forward?

### Participants

- Aferdita (DITA)
- Andrew (Jellybooks)
- Jiminy (Jellybooks)
- Laurent (EDRLab)

### References

- [Shared models in Readium Web, PR 3]( https://github.com/readium/web/pull/3)
- [Navigator in JBKS fork, PR 1](https://github.com/Jellybooks/web/pull/1) 
- [EP WIP on tests for the shared model](https://github.com/TriangularCube/web)

## Status

Summary of the last episodes ...

- the Readium Web Github repo currently contains requirements and a presentation of a developer API, and is now waiting for code.
- Jiminy has developed from May to July a codebase which follows the Readium Architecture rules, i.e. with a Shared (Core) Model and a Navigator; the implemented APIs were not final because the Readium Architecture had not completely defined them yet.
- Mickaël Menu reviewed this code in July. 
- Monday project calls stopped during the summer; the project was discussed during some Wednesday meetings but stayed on hold.
- Jiminy and Aferdita had a long exchange, back in September, on how to move on.
- They agreed that the PaginatedBookView and ScrolledBookView must be merged before an alpha of Readium Web can be released (= action A)
- Aferdita said at the time she would make her best to do action A, as part of her own project R2D2BC first.
- Juan Corona prepared in July a readium-web-monorepo sample.
- Juan  said EP would create a test suite. Michael from EP started as a WIP.
- Juan left EP in August. 
- Afterdita never found the time to complete action A until now. 

## Open issues

- merge PaginatedBookView and ScrolledBookView
- injectables (e.g. injecting Readium CSS)
- compatibility levels vs browsers
- complete APIs
- implementation of Locators for highlights

## Unique ReflowableBookView

Involves injecting Readium CSS.

This is a huge task (weeks or even months). 
But merging is mandatory because keeping them separate makes the dev separate from the Readium Architecture. 

DITA will need to develop it for the sake of simplification of R2D2BC, and is ok to contribute it back to Readium Web, but cannot commit on a timeframe. 

Jellybooks needs it for the Jellybooks Reader 5.0 but cannot start working on it before the end of the year.

## Locators

Jellybooks is prioritizing the implementation of Locators in the webview for highlights (and search ...) from the code developed by Daniel on Thorium Reader / Readium Desktop. 

## Actions

- [ ] __Aferdita__: check how to merge the APIs of the two BookViews; see what is common, add what is not common; check if that fits with the Navigator API. End with a ReflowableBookView with some blanks (APIs needing more work, needing switches between page & scroll). 
- [ ] __Jiminy__: double-check the naming of Readium Web ReflowableBookView APIs vs the Navigator API. 
- [ ] __Laurent__: discuss with Daniel the implementation of paginated vs scroll in Readium Desktop, and if possible how Electron code could be removed. 
- [ ] __Laurent__: check if there is a way to split the ReflowableBookView in smaller modules that can be developed in parallel. 


